The butterfly effect of knowledge generates **Zettelkasten concepts** from a simple **YouTube video** for Epistemophiles.

# Why **byteou-netzwerkstatt**?

What a strange name for a project. It's an anagram of **youtube-zettelcasten**.

**byteou**: This word could suggest "digital information (byte) in all its forms (ou)" 😉
**netzwerkstatt**: This one is an existing German word! It means "network workshop" or "networking workshop". It's an interesting coincidence given that the Zettelkasten is a form of knowledge network.

# What is it for?

The idea is to no longer waste time when watching interesting YouTube videos.
A few notes in a file with the video ID and this application takes care of everything.
It generates a summary, completes your notes with the content, and extracts different concepts according to the **Zettelkasten** method.

For this to work:
- the video must have the transcription available on the YouTube platform.
- you need an API key like OpenAI or Google.
- a performant LLM model.

Everything is structured in Markdown to improve readability: one file for the summary note and one file per concept. Everything is linked via the correct Markdown syntax and integrates intelligent hashtags. Enough to feed your Obsidian with quality data that corresponds to your notes.

Concretely, benefit from an effortless dynamic mapping that corresponds to your interpretation in the **Zettelkasten** style.

What is all this for? **"The butterfly effect of knowledge" - Observe how a simple note can influence an entire network of ideas thanks to dynamic visualization.**

Obsidian's graph view is not just an aesthetic function - it's a powerful tool that transforms how we organize, visualize, and use our knowledge. It's a powerful cognitive lever for structuring your thinking and spotting blind spots.

> [!NOTE] "A cognitive navigation to travel through your ideas" - Explore the connections between your notes and discover new avenues of thought.

An extension, SamSmart Connections, will allow you to take it to the next level by leveraging inference on these new notes. Semantic searches thanks to cosine similarities will be within reach, and you can exploit your memos like never before.

# How to use it technically

## Parameter configuration

Create a `config.yaml` file from `config.orig.yaml`.

Several API providers are supported: all OpenAI-compatible providers (tested via a proxy like LLM and via the Perplexity API) as well as Google Gemini.

> [!WARNING]  The power and performance of the model affect the tool's process because certain markers are generated by the LLMs via the prompts. If the model is too "weak," it will not follow the instructions. As a general rule, the quality of the Zettelkasten concept extraction depends on the "depth" of the model.
> Usage requires processing large contexts if you are dealing with long videos. The model must also be able to support the context width, so this is also a criterion to consider. So-called "reasoning" models do not provide any added value to byteou-netzwerkstatt.
> As of May 2025, the two recommended models are Claude 3.7 or Gemini 2.0 Flash.

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mollierj-devel/byteou-netzwerkstatt.git
cd byteou-netzwerkstatt
```

### Loading uv environment with Python dependencies

```bash
uv venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install -r requirements.txt
chmod +x ./byteou-netzwerkstatt.py
```

### Utilisation

```bash
python -m byteou-netzwerkstatt -help
#or
python ./byteou-netzwerkstatt.py -help
#or
./byteou-netzwerkstatt.py -help
```
